---
tags:
  -  People
---
[Amber Schroader](amber_schroader.md) is the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) of Paraben Corporation and has been a driving force in the
field of computer forensics for the past sixteen years. During this
time, she has developed and taught numerous courses for the computer
forensic arena, specializing in wireless forensics as well as mobile
technologies. Ms Schroader is the CEO of Paraben Corporation and is the
driving force behind many of the most innovative forensic technologies
on the market today. Ms Schroader has been key in developing new and
effective technology to help investigators with the extraction of
digital evidence from hard drives, e-mail and, mobile devices. Ms
Schroader coined the concept of the 360 degrees of digital forensics for
each of these areas. Ms Schroader has extensive experience working with
all sectors of forensic investigation, ranging from federal, state,
local, corporate and private parties. With an aggressive development
schedule, Ms Schroader continues to bring new and exciting technology to
the computer forensic community world-wide and is dedicated to
supporting the investigator through new technologies and training
services that are being provided through Paraben Corporation. Ms.
Schroader has been a contributor to several books in the field of
Digital Forensics including Wireless Crime and Forensic Investigation,
Techno Security Guide to Managing Risks for IT Managers, Auditors and
Investigators, Techno Security's Guide to E-Discovery and Digital
Forensics: A Comprehensive Handbook along with Alternate Data Storage.