---
tags:
  - No Category
---
RFID stands for Radio Frequency IDentification. It typically applies to
a technology that uses radio waves to automatically identify people or
objects. While there are various ways to identify, the most common is to
store a serial number that represents a person or object identity and
possibly other information, on a microchip that is attached to an
antenna. Collectively the microchip and antenna represent a RFID
transponder or an RFID tag. The antenna gives the chip ability to
transmit identity information to a RFID reader. Then the RFID reader
converts the radio waves into digital information that can then be
passed to the computer for usage. RFID has been around since the 1970s.
Since the radio waves from the low end of the electromagnetic spectrum,
waves are safe as radio waves from a car radio.

RFID and Bar codes are different technologies and have different
applications. The big difference between the two is bar codes are
line-of-sight technology. A scanner requires a bar code be brought
towards a scanner in order for it to be read. RFID on the other hand,
doesnâ€™t require line of sight. RFID tags can be read as long as they are
within range of a RFID reader. If a label is somehow removed or damaged
there is no way to scan the item.

Currently many forms and sizes such as personal items, services, and
products use RFID worldwide. Currently in the United States, most public
transportation such as trains, buses, and restaurants such as Mcdonald's
all carry RFID receptacles that allow credit card transactions using
MasterCard's PayPass. MasterCard PayPass is the payment feature that can
be added to any MasterCard payment account to enable payments with a
simple tap. PayPass is flexible enough that it can be built into cards
or other devices such as key fobs, and can be used in markets that
primarily issue smart cards or those that primarily issue magnetic
stripe cards.

InfoSync reported that, Motorola and MasterCard are conducting field
tests of new mobile phones that include Radio Frequency Identification
(RFID) chips embedded in them as part of a cashless payment system
dubbed PayPass. The phones will be equipped with Near Field
Communication (NFC) systems, which will allow them to communicate with
nearby readers to, for instance, pay for small purchases or tickets for
transit or events simply by passing their phone close to a reader.

Once the phone and account has been identified by the RFID tag, the
user's MasterCard account will be billed automatically by the network
for the appropriate amount. MasterCard also sees potential for the
phones as contactless readers, which it claims opens the door for "a
variety of marketing a 1000 nd promotional applications", on which the
company did not elaborate further.

The PayPass trials will be run by the end of the 2006 at various
locations in the United States.