---
tags:
  -  Organization
  -  Training
---
The SANS Institute was established in 1989 as a cooperative research and
education organization. Its programs now reach more than 165,000
security professionals around the world. A range of individuals from
auditors and network administrators, to chief information security
officers are sharing the lessons they learn and are jointly finding
solutions to the challenges they face. At the heart of SANS are the many
security practitioners in varied global organizations from corporations
to universities working together to help the entire information security
community.

SANS is the most trusted and by far the largest source for information
security training and security certification in the world. It also
develops, maintains, and makes available at no cost, the largest
collection of research documents about various aspects of information
security, and it operates the Internet's early warning system - the
Internet Storm Center.

Computer Security Training & Certification

SANS provides intensive, immersion training designed to help you and
your staff master the practical steps necessary for defending systems
and networks against the most dangerous threats - the ones being
actively exploited. The courses are full of important and immediately
useful techniques that you can put to work as soon as you return to your
offices. They were developed through a consensus process involving
hundreds of administrators, security managers, and information security
professionals, and address both security fundamentals and awareness, and
the in-depth technical aspects of the most crucial areas of IT security.

SANS training can be taken in a classroom setting from SANS-certified
instructors, self-paced over the Internet, or in mentored settings in
cities around the world. Each year, SANS programs educate more than
12,000 people in the US and internationally. To find the best teachers
in each topic in the world, SANS runs a continuous competition for
instructors. Last year more than 90 people tried out for the SANS
faculty, but only five new people were selected.

SANS also offers a Work Study Program through which, in return for
acting as an important extension of SANS' conference staff, facilitators
may attend classes at a greatly reduced rate. Facilitators are most
definitely expected to pull their weight and the educational rewards for
their doing so are substantial.

